src/handbook/development/support/triage.md, before:

---
navTitle: Triage Duty
---

# Support Triage Duty

## Overview

Support triage duty is a first-line monitoring role to ensure incoming support requests are promptly categorized and routed to the right person. The goal is not to solve every issue yourself, but to make sure nothing falls through the cracks and customers receive timely responses.

## Where Tickets Come From

- **Live chat** from the support widget on the website
- **Emails** sent to support@flowfuse.com

Both appear in the [HubSpot helpdesk](https://app-eu1.hubspot.com/help-desk/26586079/). For detailed HubSpot procedures, see the [Support Tickets section](/handbook/sales/customer-success/#support-tickets) of Customer Success.

## Monitoring

- **HubSpot**: Keep the helpdesk open in a browser tab
- **Slack**: New tickets trigger a notification in [#support-tickets](https://flowfuse.slack.com/archives/C031K13FLDD)

## Triage Categories

When a new ticket comes in, categorize it, answer the question directly, or route accordingly. Some initial guidance:

| Category | Action |
|----------|--------|
| Sales inquiry | Route to [#dept-sales](https://flowfuse.slack.com/archives/C05GYH95NJZ) team |
| Billing inquiry | Route to DRI for Finance |
| Product support | Route to [#dept-engineering](https://flowfuse.slack.com/archives/C032Q63FGG1) team |
| Spam (e.g., booth design offers) | Close ticket without responding, delete Slack notification |

## Key Points

- **Check the content carefully**: Sales team members sometimes email support on behalf of customers. The "from" address may be internal, but the request is for a customer.
- **Ticket ownership**: Whoever replies first becomes the ticket owner and receives future notifications for that ticket.
- **Already assigned tickets**: If a ticket already has an owner, you don't need to intervene—unless it's been unresponded for 24+ hours, then give the owner a nudge.
- **When unsure**: Ask in #engineering or #support-tickets for guidance.

## Handling Spam

Common spam includes booth design offers and unsolicited sales pitches. For these:

1. Do not reply
2. Close the ticket in HubSpot
3. Delete the notification from #support-tickets to reduce noise

Commit message:

Improve support triage documentation
Add two important notes to support triage handbook:
- Slack notification configuration for badge visibility
- Warning about HubSpot ticket merging limitations

src/handbook/development/support/triage.md, after:

---
navTitle: Triage Duty
---

# Support Triage Duty

## Overview

Support triage duty is a first-line monitoring role to ensure incoming support requests are promptly categorized and routed to the right person. The goal is not to solve every issue yourself, but to make sure nothing falls through the cracks and customers receive timely responses.

## Where Tickets Come From

- **Live chat** from the support widget on the website
- **Emails** sent to support@flowfuse.com

Both appear in the [HubSpot helpdesk](https://app-eu1.hubspot.com/help-desk/26586079/). For detailed HubSpot procedures, see the [Support Tickets section](/handbook/sales/customer-success/#support-tickets) of Customer Success.

## Monitoring

- **HubSpot**: Keep the helpdesk open in a browser tab
- **Slack**: New tickets trigger a notification in [#support-tickets](https://flowfuse.slack.com/archives/C031K13FLDD)
  - **Note**: To get badge notifications (like mentions) for this channel, configure it in the channel's notification preferences—not just the bell icon button

## Triage Categories

When a new ticket comes in, categorize it, answer the question directly, or route accordingly. Some initial guidance:

| Category | Action |
|----------|--------|
| Sales inquiry | Route to [#dept-sales](https://flowfuse.slack.com/archives/C05GYH95NJZ) team |
| Billing inquiry | Route to DRI for Finance |
| Product support | Route to [#dept-engineering](https://flowfuse.slack.com/archives/C032Q63FGG1) team |
| Spam (e.g., booth design offers) | Close ticket without responding, delete Slack notification |

## Key Points

- **Check the content carefully**: Sales team members sometimes email support on behalf of customers. The "from" address may be internal, but the request is for a customer.
- **Ticket ownership**: Whoever replies first becomes the ticket owner and receives future notifications for that ticket.
- **Already assigned tickets**: If a ticket already has an owner, you don't need to intervene—unless it's been unresponded for 24+ hours, then give the owner a nudge.
- **When unsure**: Ask in #engineering or #support-tickets for guidance.
- **Do NOT merge tickets in HubSpot**: Merged tickets become unsearchable and disappear from the inbox. They're only accessible via direct URL afterward. This is a [known HubSpot limitation](https://community.hubspot.com/t5/HubSpot-Ideas/Search-the-MERGED-Ticket-Data/idi-p/330641). Keep tickets separate to maintain searchability and visibility.

## Handling Spam

Common spam includes booth design offers and unsolicited sales pitches. For these:

1. Do not reply
2. Close the ticket in HubSpot
3. Delete the notification from #support-tickets to reduce noise
