---
navTitle: Engagements & Pricing
---

# Engagements

FlowFuse has two commercial offerings; self-managed and FlowFuse Cloud. How we
engage with customers will differentiate based on the install method and size of
the opportunity.

Internal documents:
- [Price list with volume discounts](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1q1OEo_5fr20txl__bJDR1cFrzv3qzvLLXcgEVFq6h68)

## Professional Services

FlowFuse may offer support services as part of an annual subscription if it's advantageous to onboard the new customer or expand usage for a current customer. Any professional services or engineering resources provided will be subject to business case and CEO approval.

If Professional Services are rendered, it is required to document the learnings in issues, documentation, and blog content so that the information gleaned is available to the rest of the organization and the public.

## Generating a Quote and Order Form

Quotes are generated through HubSpot. Each quote should link to the subsciption
agreement as well as include "Order Form" in the description. Link the latest
version of the document with the [subscription agreement](../legal/#subscription-agreement).

## Generating a license

For self-managed installs a license needs to be generated and installed to
unlock premium features. Licenses are generated by cloning the [`flowforge/flowforge`](https://github.com/FlowFuse/flowforge)
repository and running `node forge/licensing/license-generator.js`. The missing
details can be found in 1Password.

All licenses must be added [to this document](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1wM_o8IWjjkwi-WMRueKfS-lrmkQYzV83xm4BIzZNAO0).
