src/handbook/peopleops/hiring/star-questions.md, before:

---
navTitle: STAR Questions
---

Every candidate hiring plan includes at least one STAR Interview.

A [STAR interview](https://www.themuse.com/advice/star-interview-method) is aimed at discussing the candidates past performance in certain situations and is meant to given an indication if the way they have behaved in the past is in line with FlowFuse expectations.

## Questions
Below are some questions that can be used and how answers are evaluated.

## STAR Interview Questions

#### 1. How do you build rapport with teammates if you don't work in the same physical location?

**Values**
- Collaborative Community

#### 2. In an async environment, we rely heavily on written communication. Have you ever had written communication go wrong?

**Values**
- Constructive Candor
- Iterative Improvement

#### 3. Walk me through a situation where you shipped something that wasn’t right the first time. What happened next?

**Values**
- Iterative Improvement
- Results

#### 4. When did understanding the customer’s perspective change how you approached a problem? What happened as a result?

**Values**
- Customer Empathy
- Results

#### 5. Has someone’s input changed your perspective during a discussion?

**Values**
- Constructive Candor
- Collaborative Community

#### 6. Have you ever noticed a problem and decided to jump in? What happened?

**Values**
- Results
- Iterative Improvement

#### 7. What’s an example of helping someone through a blocker rather than solving it for them?

**Values**
- Collaborative Community
- Iterative Improvement

#### 8. When was the last time you disagreed with someone at work, and how did you handle it?

**Values**
- Constructive Candor
- Collaborative Community

#### 9. What’s a situation where you had to navigate difficult feedback, either giving or receiving it?

**Values**
- Constructive Candor
- Iterative Improvement

#### 10. When have you acted quickly and been wrong? What did you do afterward?

**Values**
- Results
- Iterative Improvement
- Constructive Candor

#### 11. Think of your past managers. What qualities did you appreciate about them?

**Values**
- Collaborative Community
- Constructive Candor

Commit message:

Revise STAR question on building rapport remotely

src/handbook/peopleops/hiring/star-questions.md, after:

---
navTitle: STAR Questions
---

Every candidate hiring plan includes at least one STAR Interview.

A [STAR interview](https://www.themuse.com/advice/star-interview-method) is aimed at discussing the candidates past performance in certain situations and is meant to given an indication if the way they have behaved in the past is in line with FlowFuse expectations.

## Questions
Below are some questions that can be used and how answers are evaluated.

## STAR Interview Questions

#### 1. How do you build connection and strengthen relationships on a distributed team, beyond just getting the work done?

**Values**
- Collaborative Community

#### 2. In an async environment, we rely heavily on written communication. Have you ever had written communication go wrong?

**Values**
- Constructive Candor
- Iterative Improvement

#### 3. Walk me through a situation where you shipped something that wasn’t right the first time. What happened next?

**Values**
- Iterative Improvement
- Results

#### 4. When did understanding the customer’s perspective change how you approached a problem? What happened as a result?

**Values**
- Customer Empathy
- Results

#### 5. Has someone’s input changed your perspective during a discussion?

**Values**
- Constructive Candor
- Collaborative Community

#### 6. Have you ever noticed a problem and decided to jump in? What happened?

**Values**
- Results
- Iterative Improvement

#### 7. What’s an example of helping someone through a blocker rather than solving it for them?

**Values**
- Collaborative Community
- Iterative Improvement

#### 8. When was the last time you disagreed with someone at work, and how did you handle it?

**Values**
- Constructive Candor
- Collaborative Community

#### 9. What’s a situation where you had to navigate difficult feedback, either giving or receiving it?

**Values**
- Constructive Candor
- Iterative Improvement

#### 10. When have you acted quickly and been wrong? What did you do afterward?

**Values**
- Results
- Iterative Improvement
- Constructive Candor

#### 11. Think of your past managers. What qualities did you appreciate about them?

**Values**
- Collaborative Community
- Constructive Candor
