src/handbook/marketing/messaging.md, before:

---
navTitle: Company Messaging
---

# {{ navTitle }}

Clear and consistent messaging serves as a cornerstone for our company to
achieve growth and a bigger market presence. The messaging framework is
essential for the company to communicate its value, purpose, and
differentiation, to in turn effectively acquire and retain our customer base.

Consistency of messaging is important; with our growing company we’ve got
limited resources and thus it’s imperative to make a significant impact quickly.
If that fails, the company must learn quickly and iterate. When the messaging is
consistent the company can learn faster and have a structured approach to these
iterations.

For guidance on how to express our brand in writing and communication style, see
[Brand Personality, Tone of Voice & Character](/handbook/marketing/brand-voice/)

Please also read the
[Company Mission](/handbook/company/strategy/#flowfuse%27s-mission) before
diving into the messaging.

## Audience

FlowFuse is a business to business (B2B) company in the industrial markets to
innovate with software through low-code development. The end user is a skilled
worker, but not always skilled in automation through software.

FlowFuse often sells to IT teams that want to enable the OT teams to participate
in digital solution building.

FlowFuse focusses on the engineer for messaging, this is due to the adoption of
our software being grass-roots.

### Ideal Customer Profile (ICP)

FlowFuse appeals to a broad range of customers, many of which do not fall into
our 'ICP'. That's not to say FlowFuse shouldn't cater to this audience, but does

1. Manufacturing or industrial company
   1. Tier 1: Automotive, Pharma, Renewable energy
   1. Tier 2: Electronics, Semiconductor, Chemical, Oil & Gas
   1. Tier 3: Food & Beverage, Mining, Water & Wastewater
1. Greater than $500 million in annual revenue. The need to have sufficiently
   large budgets to purchase FlowFuse.
1. Greater than 500 employees. The company needs to be large enough to have
   internal IT and/or OT people on staff.
1. Node-RED interested
1. Established Digitalization strategy

See also the description of
[our market](/handbook/company/strategy/#the-market).

### Prospect Stages (Node-RED Awareness)

When considering messaging, sales conversations and how we communicate our value
as a product and company, wan important factor for us at this stage is how aware
of Node-RED the prospect/customer is.

We classify a customer into one of five "stages":

- **Stage 0: Unaware of Node-RED** No knowledge of Node-RED and what is does
- **Stage 1: Node-RED Discovery** Aware of what Node-RED is, and may have
  dabbled with it a little, without using it in-depth
- **Stage 2: Value of Node-RED** User has used Node-RED in their own personal
  projects, or for professional proof-of-concepts
- **Stage 3: Node-RED in Production** Person has built and deployed Node-RED in
  a professional, production, environment
- **Stage 4: Node-RED at Scale** User has over 5 x Node-RED instances running in
  a production environment

Independent of the stage a customer is at, we need to ensure we have consistent
messaging around the value of FlowFuse, but be aware of other value (e.g. the
pure value of Node-RED) which can still be factored into the conversation.

## Messaging

FlowFuse is the open-source Industrial Application Platform.

### Tagline

{{ site.messaging.tagLine }}

### FlowFuse in one sentence - Under 150 characters

FlowFuse helps manufacturers and IoT teams connect _every_ machine to the Cloud
and AI. Providing confidence in decisions and your organisation's response to
keep operations running smoothly.

### About FlowFuse - Short form

FlowFuse is the enterprise platform that bridges the gap between physical assets
and enterprise IT. Powered by Node-RED, teams now unify real-time data through
workflows, AI agents, and industrial applications. FlowFuse gives organizations
the confidence to innovate, adapt, and unlock new value in industrial automation.

## FlowFuse in-depth

FlowFuse is the industrial platform built for speed, intelligence, and operational confidence—enabling organizations to orchestrate their most critical applications, data, and automation at scale. Founded in 2021 by Nick O’Leary, the visionary behind Node-RED, FlowFuse takes the best of low-code integration and supercharges it with enterprise governance, robust security, and built-in AI.
FlowFuse’s platform puts advanced automation and artificial intelligence at the heart of industrial innovation—empowering teams to connect any machine or system, unify diverse data streams, and deploy automated logic and visualizations in record time. With AI Copilot tools, domain experts and engineers can transform, structure, and analyze industrial data—simply and intuitively—accelerating solution development beyond traditional approaches.
Security and reliability are never compromised: from audit trails and access controls to blueprint-driven deployments and version automation, FlowFuse is engineered for mission-critical, production environments. Whether you choose cloud, self-hosted, or hybrid, FlowFuse gives you complete control while driving the agility you need to lead the market.
By blending trusted open-source roots with relentless product innovation and a clear focus on tangible outcomes, FlowFuse is the competitive advantage for industrial teams ready to deliver results faster, more securely, and smarter than ever before.

## Selection Criteria: Our messaging commandments

This captures how we believe an ICP team is thinking about how to choose their next generation software platform for digitalizing their industrial process. This captures the following questions and our answers.

These are the 11 FlowFuse Messaging Commandments. 
Every message that comes out from the team has to stick to one or many of these commandments. Otherwise it is wrong, because it’s not really helping sales. 

1. Connect all your machines and assets in my industrial process to make it _fully observable_.
   - FlowFuse can be extended with over 5,000 plug-ins for collecting data from any machine, protocol, ERP, MES, or other services.
   - FlowFuse enables scalable agent deployment to unify data from any source or protocol across the industrial edge.
  
2. Convert all data across any protocol so separate systems work as a cohesive unit.
  - FlowFuse unifies separate systems and industrial protocols on a single, low-code platform.
  - Accelerated by an AI assistant, FlowFuse makes it faster than ever to build and deploy logic for real-time data transport between any source and destination.

Commit message:

Update messaging with a less technical elevator pitch for events.md

src/handbook/marketing/messaging.md, after:

---
navTitle: Company Messaging
---

# {{ navTitle }}

Clear and consistent messaging serves as a cornerstone for our company to
achieve growth and a bigger market presence. The messaging framework is
essential for the company to communicate its value, purpose, and
differentiation, to in turn effectively acquire and retain our customer base.

Consistency of messaging is important; with our growing company we’ve got
limited resources and thus it’s imperative to make a significant impact quickly.
If that fails, the company must learn quickly and iterate. When the messaging is
consistent the company can learn faster and have a structured approach to these
iterations.

For guidance on how to express our brand in writing and communication style, see
[Brand Personality, Tone of Voice & Character](/handbook/marketing/brand-voice/)

Please also read the
[Company Mission](/handbook/company/strategy/#flowfuse%27s-mission) before
diving into the messaging.

## Audience

FlowFuse is a business to business (B2B) company in the industrial markets to
innovate with software through low-code development. The end user is a skilled
worker, but not always skilled in automation through software.

FlowFuse often sells to IT teams that want to enable the OT teams to participate
in digital solution building.

FlowFuse focusses on the engineer for messaging, this is due to the adoption of
our software being grass-roots.

### Ideal Customer Profile (ICP)

FlowFuse appeals to a broad range of customers, many of which do not fall into
our 'ICP'. That's not to say FlowFuse shouldn't cater to this audience, but does

1. Manufacturing or industrial company
   1. Tier 1: Automotive, Pharma, Renewable energy
   1. Tier 2: Electronics, Semiconductor, Chemical, Oil & Gas
   1. Tier 3: Food & Beverage, Mining, Water & Wastewater
1. Greater than $500 million in annual revenue. The need to have sufficiently
   large budgets to purchase FlowFuse.
1. Greater than 500 employees. The company needs to be large enough to have
   internal IT and/or OT people on staff.
1. Node-RED interested
1. Established Digitalization strategy

See also the description of
[our market](/handbook/company/strategy/#the-market).

### Prospect Stages (Node-RED Awareness)

When considering messaging, sales conversations and how we communicate our value
as a product and company, wan important factor for us at this stage is how aware
of Node-RED the prospect/customer is.

We classify a customer into one of five "stages":

- **Stage 0: Unaware of Node-RED** No knowledge of Node-RED and what is does
- **Stage 1: Node-RED Discovery** Aware of what Node-RED is, and may have
  dabbled with it a little, without using it in-depth
- **Stage 2: Value of Node-RED** User has used Node-RED in their own personal
  projects, or for professional proof-of-concepts
- **Stage 3: Node-RED in Production** Person has built and deployed Node-RED in
  a professional, production, environment
- **Stage 4: Node-RED at Scale** User has over 5 x Node-RED instances running in
  a production environment

Independent of the stage a customer is at, we need to ensure we have consistent
messaging around the value of FlowFuse, but be aware of other value (e.g. the
pure value of Node-RED) which can still be factored into the conversation.

## Messaging

FlowFuse is the open-source Industrial Application Platform.

### Tagline

{{ site.messaging.tagLine }}

### FlowFuse in one sentence - Under 150 characters

FlowFuse helps manufacturers and IoT teams connect _every_ machine to the Cloud
and AI. Providing confidence in decisions and your organisation's response to
keep operations running smoothly.

### About FlowFuse - Short form

FlowFuse is the enterprise platform that bridges the gap between physical assets
and enterprise IT. Powered by Node-RED, teams now unify real-time data through
workflows, AI agents, and industrial applications. FlowFuse gives organizations
the confidence to innovate, adapt, and unlock new value in industrial automation.

## FlowFuse in-depth

FlowFuse is the industrial platform built for speed, intelligence, and operational confidence—enabling organizations to orchestrate their most critical applications, data, and automation at scale. Founded in 2021 by Nick O’Leary, the visionary behind Node-RED, FlowFuse takes the best of low-code integration and supercharges it with enterprise governance, robust security, and built-in AI.
FlowFuse’s platform puts advanced automation and artificial intelligence at the heart of industrial innovation—empowering teams to connect any machine or system, unify diverse data streams, and deploy automated logic and visualizations in record time. With AI Copilot tools, domain experts and engineers can transform, structure, and analyze industrial data—simply and intuitively—accelerating solution development beyond traditional approaches.
Security and reliability are never compromised: from audit trails and access controls to blueprint-driven deployments and version automation, FlowFuse is engineered for mission-critical, production environments. Whether you choose cloud, self-hosted, or hybrid, FlowFuse gives you complete control while driving the agility you need to lead the market.
By blending trusted open-source roots with relentless product innovation and a clear focus on tangible outcomes, FlowFuse is the competitive advantage for industrial teams ready to deliver results faster, more securely, and smarter than ever before.

## Elevator pitch for events

We are professionalizing Node-RED for the shop-floor, meaning that you keep the agility, speed and flexibility of the open source but add to that the enterprise grade security, full traceability, and scalability for an industrial environment. 

## Selection Criteria: Our messaging commandments

This captures how we believe an ICP team is thinking about how to choose their next generation software platform for digitalizing their industrial process. This captures the following questions and our answers.

These are the 11 FlowFuse Messaging Commandments. 
Every message that comes out from the team has to stick to one or many of these commandments. Otherwise it is wrong, because it’s not really helping sales. 

1. Connect all your machines and assets in my industrial process to make it _fully observable_.
   - FlowFuse can be extended with over 5,000 plug-ins for collecting data from any machine, protocol, ERP, MES, or other services.
   - FlowFuse enables scalable agent deployment to unify data from any source or protocol across the industrial edge.
  
2. Convert all data across any protocol so separate systems work as a cohesive unit.
  - FlowFuse unifies separate systems and industrial protocols on a single, low-code platform.
  - Accelerated by an AI assistant, FlowFuse makes it faster than ever to build and deploy logic for real-time data transport between any source and destination.
