---
layout: nohero
skipIndex: true
meta:
    title: Terms and Conditions
---
<div class="prose prose-blue container m-auto max-w-4xl">

# FLOWFUSE INC.– SAAS SERVICES TERMS AND CONDITIONS

THESE TERMS AND CONDITIONS (“TERMS”) GOVERN YOUR ACCESS TO AND USE OF OUR SAAS SERVICES INCLUDING ANY CONTENT THEREIN (THE “SAAS SERVICES”). BY ACCEPTING THESE TERMS, EITHER BY CLICKING A BOX INDICATING YOUR ACCEPTANCE OR BY EXECUTING AN ORDER FORM THAT REFERENCES THESE TERMS, YOU AGREE TO THESE TERMS. THE TERM “AGREEMENT” AS USED HEREIN SHALL MEAN THESE TERMS, TOGETHER WITH THE ORDER FORM AND ANY DPA ENTERED INTO BY THE PARTIES. IN THE EVENT OF A CONFLICT BETWEEN THESE TERMS AND ANY ENTERPRISE SERVICES AGREEMENT, IF ANY, EXECUTED BETWEEN FLOWFORGE INC. AND THE ORGANIZATION WHICH YOU REPRESENT, THAT ENTERPRISE SERVICES AGREEMENT WILL CONTROL. IF YOU ARE ACCEPTING THESE TERMS ON BEHALF OF A COMPANY OR OTHER LEGAL ENTITY, YOU REPRESENT THAT YOU HAVE THE AUTHORITY TO BIND SUCH ENTITY AND ITS AFFILIATES TO THESE TERMS, IN WHICH CASE “YOU” OR “YOUR” OR “CUSTOMER” SHALL REFER TO SUCH ENTITY AND ITS AFFILIATES. IF YOU DO NOT HAVE SUCH AUTHORITY, OR IF YOU DO NOT AGREE WITH THESE TERMS, YOU MUST NOT ACCEPT THIS AGREEMENT AND MAY NOT USE THE SAAS SERVICES. 

This Agreement is effective as of the date of your acceptance of this Agreement.  Reference to “we”, “our” and “us” in its related variations and “Company” shall mean FlowFuse Inc. or its aﬃliates, as applicable, from whom you receive the SaaS Services. 

# 1. AUTHORIZED USE. 
By accepting these Terms, you agree to these Terms on behalf of yourself, your organization and any entity that you represent or on behalf of which you use the SaaS Services. You further agree that you have the authority to bind that organization to these Terms and that you are authorized to be an Administrative User (as defined below) on behalf such organization. The SaaS Services may only be used for your internal business purposes (the “Authorized Use”). You are responsible for Authorized Users’ (as defined below) compliance with this Agreement, and any act or omission of any Authorized User shall be treated as if undertaken by You.
# 2 DEFINITIONS. 
Capitalized terms will have the meanings set forth in this Section 2, or in the section where they are first used.
## 2.1 “Access Protocols” 
means the passwords, access codes, technical specifications, connectivity standards or protocols, or other relevant procedures, as may be necessary to allow Customer or any Authorized Users to access the SaaS Services.
## 2.2 “Administrative User” 
means an individual who is authorized by You to access and use the SaaS Services as a manager of the SaaS Services pursuant to Your rights under this Agreement and who registers through the SaaS Services as an Administrative User.  The Administrative User shall, among other things, have the ability to create and manage teams and projects, add new Registered Users and control settings and permissions for Registered Users, including granting Administrative User permissions to Registered Users.
## 2.3 “Authorized User”
 means, collectively, each Administrative User and Registered User.
## 2.4 “Customer Content” 
means any content and information provided or submitted by, or on behalf of, Customer or its Authorized Users for use with the SaaS Services.
## 2.5 "Data Protection Laws” 
means any applicable Laws, regulations, orders, or judgments issued by a governmental authority that govern the privacy, security, confidentiality, protection, processing or transfer of the Personal Data or that govern the rights of Authorized Users with regard to that Personal Data. Data Protection Laws include the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, and all regulations implemented under either act (collectively, “HIPAA”) with regard to any data that is PHI.
## 2.6 “Documentation” 
means the technical materials provided by Company to Customer in hard copy or electronic form describing the use and operation of the SaaS Services.
## 2.7 “Error” 
means a reproducible failure of the SaaS Services to substantially conform to the Documentation.
## 2.8 “Error Corrections” 
means bug fixes or workarounds intended to correct Errors in the SaaS Services.
## 2.9 “Intellectual Property Rights” 
means any and all now known or hereafter existing (a) rights associated with works of authorship, including copyrights, mask work rights, and moral rights; (b) trademark or service mark rights; (c) trade secret rights; (d) patents, patent rights, and industrial property rights; (e) layout design rights, design rights, and other proprietary rights of every kind and nature other than trademarks, service marks, trade dress, and similar rights; and (f) all registrations, applications, renewals, extensions, or reissues of the foregoing, in each case in any jurisdiction throughout the world.
## 2.10 “Law(s)” 
means with respect to any party, in each case to the extent applicable to such party, its property, any of the Platform Services or in connection with this Agreement, any federal, national, provincial, state, county, municipal or local law, ordinance, statute, rule, regulation, code, policy, notice, treaty, judgment, executive order, decree, injunction, permit, issuance or other determination or finding of any Governmental Authority which is legally enforceable by a governmental entity.
## 2.11 “Personal Data” 
means any information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person, and all information that is “personal data,” “personal information”, “personally identifiable information” Personal Data specifically excludes all data or information that constitutes PHI.
## 2.12 "PHI” 
means “protected health information” as defined in 45 C.F.R. 160.103.
## 2.13  “Processing” 
(including “Process”, “Processes”, “Processed”, and other variants of the term) means any operation or set of operations that is performed upon Personal Data, whether or not by automatic means, such as collection, collation, recording, organization, storage, adaptation or alteration, retrieval, consultation, analysis, interpretation, compilation, aggregation, use, disclosure by transmission, dissemination, viewing, copying, deleting, or otherwise making available, alignment or combination, blocking or erasure, or destruction.
## 2.14 “Professional Services” 
means professional services provided by Company to Customer as described in any Order Form (as may be further elaborated in any statement of work).
## 2.15 “Registered User” 
means an individual who is authorized to access and use the SaaS Services pursuant to Your rights under this Agreement.
## 2.16 “Services” 
means any services provided by Company to Customer under this Agreement as set forth in an Order Form, including, but not limited to, provision of the SaaS Services and Professional Services.
## 2.17 “Supported Environment” 
means the minimum hardware, software, and connectivity configuration specified from time to time by Company as required for use of the SaaS Services. The current requirements are described in the Documentation.
#  3 PROVISION OF SERVICES
## 3.1 Access. 
Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, and Customer’s payment of the Fees, Company will provide Customer with access to the SaaS Services. On or as soon as reasonably practicable after the Effective Date Company will provide to Customer the necessary passwords, security protocols and policies and network links or connections and Access Protocols to allow Customer and its Authorized Users to access the SaaS Services in accordance with the Access Protocols. Customer will use commercially reasonable efforts to prevent unauthorized access to, or use of, the SaaS Services, and notify Company promptly of any such unauthorized use known to or suspected by Customer.
## 3.2 Support Services. 
Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, Company will exercise commercially reasonable efforts to (a) provide support for the use of the SaaS Services to Customer, and (b) keep the SaaS Services operational and available to Customer, in each case in accordance with its standard policies and procedures.
## 3.3 Hosting. 
Company will, at its own expense, provide for the hosting of the SaaS Services, provided that nothing herein will be construed to require Company to provide, or bear any responsibility with respect to, any telecommunications or computer network hardware required by Customer or any Authorized User to access the SaaS Services from the Internet.

# 4 INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
## 4.1 License Grant. 
Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, Company grants to Customer a non-exclusive, non-transferable (except as permitted under Section 13.5) license during the Term (as defined below), solely within the Supported Environment, for the Authorized Use, (a) to access and use the SaaS Services and in accordance with the Documentation; and (b) to use and reproduce a reasonable number of copies of the Documentation solely to support Customer’s use of the SaaS Services. Customer may permit any Authorized Users to access and use the features and functions of the SaaS Services as contemplated by this Agreement.
# 4.2 Restrictions. 
Customer will not, and will not permit any Authorized User or other party to: (a) allow any third party to access the SaaS Services, Licensed Material or Documentation, except as expressly allowed herein; (b) modify, adapt, alter or translate the SaaS Services, Licensed Material or Documentation; (c) sublicense, lease, sell, resell, rent, loan, distribute, transfer or otherwise allow the use of the SaaS Services or Documentation for the benefit of any unauthorized third party; (d) reverse engineer, decompile, disassemble, or otherwise derive or determine or attempt to derive or determine the source code (or the underlying ideas, algorithms, structure or organization) of the SaaS Services, except as permitted by law; (e) interfere in any manner with the operation of the SaaS Services or the hardware and network used to operate the SaaS Services; (f) modify, copy or make derivative works based on any part of the SaaS Services or Documentation; (g) access or use the SaaS Services to build a similar or competitive product or service; (h) attempt to access the SaaS Services through any unapproved interface; or (i) otherwise use the SaaS Services or Documentation in any manner that exceeds the scope of use permitted under Section 4.1 or in a manner inconsistent with applicable law, the Documentation, or this Agreement. Customer will not remove, alter, or obscure any proprietary notices (including copyright and trademark notices) of Company or its licensors on the Documentation or any copies thereof.
## 4.3 Ownership. 
The SaaS Services and Documentation, and all worldwide Intellectual Property Rights in each of the foregoing, are the exclusive property of Company and its suppliers. All rights in and to the SaaS Services and Documentation not expressly granted to Customer in this Agreement are reserved by Company and its suppliers. Except as expressly set forth herein, no express or implied license or right of any kind is granted to Customer regarding the SaaS Services, Documentation, or any part thereof.
## 4.4 Open Source Software. 
Certain items of software may be provided to Customer with the SaaS Services and are subject to “open source” or “free software” licenses (“Open Source Software”). Some of the Open Source Software is owned by third parties. The Open Source Software is not subject to the terms and conditions of Sections 4.1 or 11. Instead, each item of Open Source Software is licensed under the terms of the end-user license that accompanies such Open Source Software. Nothing in this Agreement limits Customer’s rights under, or grants Customer rights that supersede, the terms and conditions of any applicable end user license for the Open Source Software. If required by any license for particular Open Source Software, Company makes such Open Source Software, and Company’s modifications to that Open Source Software, available by written request at the notice address specified below. 
## 4.5 Feedback. 
Customer hereby grants to Company a royalty-free, worldwide, transferable, sublicensable, irrevocable, perpetual license to use or incorporate into the Services any suggestions, enhancement requests, recommendations or other feedback provided by Customer, including Authorized Users, relating to the Services. Company will not identify Customer as the source of any such feedback.
# 5 FEES AND EXPENSES; PAYMENTS
## 5.1 Fees. 
In consideration for the access rights granted to Customer and the Services performed by Company under this Agreement, Customer will pay to Company the Fees as set forth in the Order Form. Such Fees will be charged to the payment method specified in the Order Form (“Payment Method”), monthly, in advance. Customer hereby agrees to Company’s automatic charging of such Fees to Customer’s Payment Method as described herein and that no further consent is required for such charges. Company reserves the right to modify the Fees payable hereunder upon written notice to Customer at least thirty (30) days prior to effectuating the change. Company reserves the right (in addition to any other rights or remedies Company may have) to discontinue the SaaS Services and suspend all Authorized Users’ and Customer’s access to the Services if Company is unable to process any payment amounts to the Payment Method when due, until such amounts are paid in full. Customer will maintain complete, accurate and up-to-date Customer billing and contact information at all times.
## 5.2 Third Party Provider. 
Company uses Stripe, Inc. as the third party service provider for payment services (e.g., card acceptance and related services). By selecting a credit card as the Payment Method for paying Fees, Customer agrees to be bound by Stripe’s Privacy Policy: https://stripe.com/privacy and hereby consents and authorizes Company to share any information and payment instructions provided herein with Stripe to the minimum extent required to complete Provider’s transactions hereunder.
## 5.3 Taxes. 
The Fees are exclusive of all applicable sales, use, value-added and other taxes, and all applicable duties, tariffs, assessments, export and import fees, or other similar charges, and Customer will be responsible for payment of all such taxes (other than taxes based on Company’s income), fees, duties, and charges and any related penalties and interest, arising from the payment of the fees, the provision of the Services, or the license of the SaaS Services to Customer. Customer will make all payments of Fees to Company free and clear of, and without reduction for, any withholding taxes; any such taxes imposed on payments of Fees to Company will be Customer’s sole responsibility, and Customer will provide Company with official receipts issued by the appropriate taxing authority, or such other evidence as the Company may reasonably request, to establish that such taxes have been paid. 
## 5.4 Interest. 
Any amounts not paid when due will bear interest at the rate of one and one half percent (1.5%) per month, or the maximum legal rate if less, from the due date until paid.
# 6 CUSTOMER CONTENT AND RESPONSIBILITIES
## 6.1 License; Ownership. 
Customer is solely responsible for any and all obligations with respect to the accuracy, quality and legality of Customer Content.  Customer will obtain all third party licenses, consents and permissions needed for Company to use the Customer Content to provide the Services.  Without limiting the foregoing, Customer will be solely responsible for obtaining from third parties all necessary rights for Company to use the Customer Content submitted by or on behalf of Customer for the purposes set forth in this Agreement. Customer grants Company a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free and fully paid license (a) during the Term, to use the Customer Content as necessary for purposes of providing and improving the Services, (b) during the Term, to use the Customer trademarks, service marks, and logos as required to provide the Services, and (c) during and after the Term, to use the Customer Content in an aggregated and anonymized form to: (i) improve the Services and Company’s related products and services; (ii) provide analytics and benchmarking services; and (iii) generate and disclose statistics regarding use of the Services, provided, however, that no Customer-only statistics will be disclosed to third parties without Customer’s consent. The Customer Content, and all worldwide Intellectual Property Rights in it, is the exclusive property of Customer. All rights in and to the Customer Content not expressly granted to Company in this Agreement are reserved by Customer.
## 6.2 Customer Warranty. 
Customer represents and warrants that any Customer Content will not (a) infringe any copyright, trademark, or patent; (b) misappropriate any trade secret; (c) be deceptive, defamatory, obscene, pornographic or unlawful; (d) contain any viruses, worms or other malicious computer programming codes intended to damage Company’s system or data; (e) otherwise violate the rights of a third party; and (f) contain any PHI. Company is not obligated to back up any Customer Content; the Customer is solely responsible for creating backup copies of any Customer Content at Customer’s sole cost and expense. Customer agrees that any use of the SaaS Services contrary to or in violation of the representations and warranties of Customer in this Section 6.2 constitutes unauthorized and improper use of the SaaS Services.
## 6.3 Customer Responsibility for Data and Security. 
Customer and its Authorized Users will have access to the Customer Content and will be responsible for all changes to and/or deletions of Customer Content and the security of all passwords and other Access Protocols required in order the access the SaaS Services. Customer will have the ability to export Customer Content out of the SaaS Services and is encouraged to make its own back-ups of the Customer Content. Customer will have the sole responsibility for the accuracy, quality, integrity, legality, reliability, and appropriateness of all Customer Content. Customer shall ensure, and it is Customer’s responsibility to ensure, that no PHI is included in the Customer Content. 
## 6.4 Data Processing Agreement. 
Before providing to Company or enabling Company to Process any Personal Data that is subject to the California Consumer Privacy Act (“CCPA”), Customer will enter into a Data Processing Agreement (DPA) with Company in the form provided by Company. If Customer has not entered into such DPA, Customer represents, warrants and covenants that no Personal Data Processed by Company under this Agreement is subject to the CCPA. Any Personal Data that is subject to the CCPA shall be governed by the DPA and shall not be Confidential Information. In the event of a conflict between any provision of the DPA and this Agreement, the provision providing the higher level of privacy or data protection shall govern.
# 7 PROFESSIONAL SERVICES. 
Where the parties have agreed to Company’s provision of Professional Services, the details of such Professional Services will be set out in an Order Form or a mutually executed statement of work (“SOW”).  The Order Form or SOW, as applicable, will include: (a) a description of the Professional Services; (b) the schedule for the performance of the Professional Services; and (c) the Fees applicable for the performance of the Professional Services. Each Order Form or SOW, as applicable, will incorporate the terms and conditions of this Agreement.  To the extent that a conflict arises between the terms and conditions of an Order Form or SOW and the terms of this Agreement, the terms and conditions of this Agreement will govern, except to the extent that the Order Form or SOW, as applicable, expressly states that it supersedes specific language in the Agreement.  
# 8 WARRANTIES AND DISCLAIMERS
## 8.1 Limited Warranty. 
Company represents and warrants that it will provide the Services and perform its other obligations under this Agreement in a professional and workmanlike manner substantially consistent with general industry standards. Provided that Customer notifies Company in writing of the breach within thirty (30) days following performance of the defective Services, specifying the breach in reasonable detail, Company will, as Customer’s sole and exclusive remedy, for any breach of the foregoing, re-perform the Services which gave rise to the breach or, at Company’s option, refund the Fees paid by Customer for the Services which gave rise to the breach. Company further warrants to Customer that the SaaS Services will operate free from Errors during the Term, provided that such warranty will not apply to failures to conform to the Documentation to the extent such failures arise, in whole or in part, from (a) any use of the SaaS Services not in accordance with this Agreement or as specified in the Documentation; (b) any use of the SaaS Services in combination with other products, equipment, software or data not supplied by Company; or (c) any modification of the SaaS Services by any person other than Company or its authorized agents. Provided that Customer notifies Company in writing of any breach of the foregoing warranty during the Term, Company will, as Customer’s sole and exclusive remedy, provide the support described in Section 3.2. 
## 8.2 Disclaimer. 
THE LIMITED WARRANTY SET FORTH IN SECTION 8.1 IS MADE FOR THE BENEFIT OF CUSTOMER ONLY. EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY PROVIDED IN THIS SECTION 8.1, AND TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, THE SERVICES AND DOCUMENTATION ARE PROVIDED “AS IS,” AND COMPANY MAKES NO (AND HEREBY DISCLAIMS ALL) OTHER WARRANTIES, REPRESENTATIONS, OR CONDITIONS, WHETHER WRITTEN, ORAL, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF SATISFACTORY QUALITY, COURSE OF DEALING, TRADE USAGE OR PRACTICE, SYSTEM INTEGRATION, DATA ACCURACY, MERCHANTABILITY, TITLE, NONINFRINGEMENT, OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. COMPANY DOES NOT WARRANT THAT ALL ERRORS CAN BE CORRECTED, OR THAT OPERATION OF THE SAAS SERVICES WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR ERROR-FREE. 
# 9 LIMITATION OF LIABILITY
## 9.1 Types of Damages. 
IN NO EVENT WILL EITHER PARTY BE LIABLE TO THE OTHER PARTY FOR ANY INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, CONSEQUENTIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES, REGARDLESS OF THE NATURE OF THE CLAIM, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, LOST PROFITS, COSTS OF DELAY, ANY FAILURE OF DELIVERY, BUSINESS INTERRUPTION, COSTS OF LOST OR DAMAGED DATA OR DOCUMENTATION, OR LIABILITIES TO THIRD PARTIES ARISING FROM ANY SOURCE, EVEN IF A PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.  THIS LIMITATION UPON DAMAGES AND CLAIMS IS INTENDED TO APPLY WITHOUT REGARD TO WHETHER OTHER PROVISIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT HAVE BEEN BREACHED OR HAVE PROVEN INEFFECTIVE.  
## 9.2 Amount of Damages. 
THE MAXIMUM LIABILITY OF EITHER PARTY ARISING OUT OF OR IN ANY WAY CONNECTED TO THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT EXCEED THE FEES PAID BY CUSTOMER TO COMPANY DURING THE TWELVE (12) MONTHS PRECEDING THE ACT, OMISSION OR OCCURRENCE GIVING RISE TO SUCH LIABILITY. NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT WILL LIMIT OR EXCLUDE EITHER PARTY’S LIABILITY FOR GROSS NEGLIGENCE OR INTENTIONAL MISCONDUCT OF A PARTY OR ITS EMPLOYEES OR AGENTS OR FOR DEATH OR PERSONAL INJURY.
## 9.3 Basis of the Bargain. 
The parties agree that the limitations of liability set forth in this Section 9 will survive and continue in full force and effect despite any failure of consideration or of an exclusive remedy. The parties acknowledge that the prices have been set and the Agreement entered into in reliance upon these limitations of liability and that all such limitations form an essential basis of the bargain between the parties. 
# 10 CONFIDENTIALITY
## 10.1 Confidential Information. 
“Confidential Information” means any nonpublic information of a party (the “Disclosing Party”), whether disclosed orally or in written or digital media, that is identified as “confidential” or with a similar legend at the time of such disclosure or that the receiving party (the “Receiving Party”) knows or should have known is the confidential or proprietary information of the Disclosing Party. The Services, Documentation, and all enhancements and improvements thereto will be considered Confidential Information of Company.
## 10.2 Protection of Confidential Information. 
The Receiving Party agrees that it will not use or disclose to any third party any Confidential Information of the Disclosing Party, except as expressly permitted under this Agreement. The Receiving Party will limit access to the Confidential Information to Authorized Users (with respect to Customer) or to those employees who have a need to know, who have confidentiality obligations no less restrictive than those set forth herein, and who have been informed of the confidential nature of such information (with respect to Company). In addition, the Receiving Party will protect the Disclosing Party’s Confidential Information from unauthorized use, access, or disclosure in the same manner that it protects its own proprietary information of a similar nature, but in no event with less than reasonable care. At the Disclosing Party’s request or upon termination or expiration of this Agreement, the Receiving Party will return to the Disclosing Party or destroy (or permanently erase in the case of electronic files) all copies of the Confidential Information that the Receiving Party does not have a continuing right to use under this Agreement, and the Receiving Party will, upon request, certify to the Disclosing Party its compliance with this sentence. 
## 10.3 Exceptions. 
The confidentiality obligations set forth in Section 10.2 will not apply to any information that (a) is at the time of disclosure or becomes generally available to the public through no fault of the Receiving Party; (b) is lawfully provided to the Receiving Party by a third party free of any confidentiality duties or obligations; (c) was already known to the Receiving Party at the time of disclosure free of any confidentiality duties or obligations; or (d) the Receiving Party can demonstrate, by clear and convincing evidence, was independently developed by employees and contractors of the Receiving Party who had no access to the Confidential Information. In addition, the Receiving Party may disclose Confidential Information to the extent that such disclosure is necessary for the Receiving Party to enforce its rights under this Agreement or is required by law or by the order of a court or similar judicial or administrative body, provided that (to the extent legally permissible) the Receiving Party promptly notifies the Disclosing Party in writing of such required disclosure and cooperates with the Disclosing Party if the Disclosing Party seeks an appropriate protective order.
# 11 INDEMNIFICATION
## 11.1 By Company. 
Company will defend at its expense any suit brought against Customer, and will pay any settlement Company makes or approves, or any damages finally awarded in such suit, insofar as such suit is based on a claim by any third party alleging that the SaaS Services infringes such third party’s patents, copyrights or trade secret rights under applicable laws of any jurisdiction within the United States of America. If any portion of the SaaS Services becomes, or in Company’s opinion is likely to become, the subject of a claim of infringement, Company may, at Company’s option: (a) procure for Customer the right to continue using the SaaS Services; (b) replace the SaaS Services with non-infringing software or services which do not materially impair the functionality of the SaaS Services; (c) modify the SaaS Services so that it becomes non-infringing; or (d) terminate this Agreement and refund any unused prepaid Fees for the remainder of the term then in effect, and upon such termination, Customer will immediately cease all use of the SaaS Services and Documentation. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Company will have no obligation under this Section 11.1 or otherwise with respect to any infringement claim based upon (i) any use of the SaaS Services not in accordance with this Agreement or as specified in the Documentation; (ii) any use of the SaaS Services in combination with other products, equipment, software or data not supplied by Company; (iii) any modification of the SaaS Services by any person other than Company or its authorized agents; or (iv) Customer Content and Customer’s (including Authorized Users’) PHI (collectively, the “Exclusions” and each, an “Exclusion”). This Section 11.1 states the sole and exclusive remedy of Customer and the entire liability of Company, or any of the officers, directors, employees, shareholders, contractors or representatives of the foregoing, for infringement claims and actions.  For the avoidance of doubt, Company shall have no indemnification obligations or other liability for any claim based on Customer Content or PHI.
## 11.2 By Customer. 
Customer will defend at its expense any suit brought against Company, and will pay any settlement Customer makes or approves, or any damages finally awarded in such suit, insofar as such suit is based on a claim arising out of or relating to (a) an Exclusion, (b) Customer’s breach or alleged breach of Sections 6.2, or (c) Customer Content. This Section 11.2 states the sole and exclusive remedy of Company and the entire liability of Customer, or any of the officers, directors, employees, shareholders, contractors or representatives of the foregoing, for the claims and actions described herein.
## 11.3 Procedure. 
The indemnifying party’s obligations as set forth above are expressly conditioned upon each of the foregoing: (a) the indemnified party will promptly notify the indemnifying party in writing of any threatened or actual claim or suit; (b) the indemnifying party will have sole control of the defense or settlement of any claim or suit; and (c) the indemnified party will cooperate with the indemnifying party to facilitate the settlement or defense of any claim or suit. 

# 12 TERM AND TERMINATION
## 12.1 Term. 
The term of this Agreement (“Term”) commences on the Effective Date and continues until terminated as provided in this Agreement.
## 12.2 Termination for Convenience.  
Either party may terminate this Agreement for convenience on sixty (60) days’ prior written notice to the other party.  If Customer terminates the Agreement pursuant to this Section 12.2, Customer shall be reimbursed pro rata for any pre-paid and unused Fees based on days remaining in the month from the point when termination takes effect.
## 12.3 Termination for Breach. 
Either party may terminate this Agreement immediately upon notice to the other party if the other party materially breaches this Agreement, and such breach remains uncured more than thirty (30) days after receipt of written notice of such breach. 
## 12.4 Effect of Termination. 
Upon termination or expiration of this Agreement for any reason: (a) all licenses granted hereunder will immediately terminate; (b) promptly after the effective date of termination or expiration, each party will comply with the obligations to return all Confidential Information of the other party, as set forth in the Section 10; and (c) any amounts owed to Company under this Agreement will become immediately due and payable. Sections 2, 4.2, 4.3, 4.5, 5, 8.2, 8, 10, 11, 12.3, 12.4, and 13 will survive expiration or termination of this Agreement for any reason.

# 13 MISCELLANEOUS
## 13.1 Governing Law and Venue. 
This Agreement and any action related thereto will be governed and interpreted by and under the laws of the State of Delaware, without giving effect to any conflicts of laws principles that require the application of the law of a different jurisdiction. Customer hereby expressly consents to the personal jurisdiction and venue in the state and federal courts for New Castle County, Delaware for any lawsuit filed there against Customer by Company arising from or related to this Agreement. The United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods does not apply to this Agreement. 
## 13.2 Export. 
Customer agrees not to export, reexport, or transfer, directly or indirectly, any U.S. technical data acquired from Company, or any products utilizing such data, in violation of the United States export laws or regulations.
## 13.3 Severability.
If any provision of this Agreement is, for any reason, held to be invalid or unenforceable, the other provisions of this Agreement will remain enforceable and the invalid or unenforceable provision will be deemed modified so that it is valid and enforceable to the maximum extent permitted by law. 
## 13.4 Waiver.
Any waiver or failure to enforce any provision of this Agreement on one occasion will not be deemed a waiver of any other provision or of such provision on any other occasion.
## 13.5 No Assignment. 
Neither party will assign, subcontract, delegate, or otherwise transfer this Agreement, or its rights and obligations herein, without obtaining the prior written consent of the other party, and any attempted assignment, subcontract, delegation, or transfer in violation of the foregoing will be null and void; provided, however, that either party may assign this Agreement in connection with a merger, acquisition, reorganization or sale of all or substantially all of its assets, or other operation of law, without any consent of the other party. The terms of this Agreement will be binding upon the parties and their respective successors and permitted assigns. 
## 13.6 Compliance with Law. 
Customer will always comply with all international and domestic laws, ordinances, regulations, and statutes that are applicable to its purchase and use of the Services, Licensed Material and Documentation.
## 13.7 Force Majeure. 
Any delay in the performance of any duties or obligations of either party (except the payment of Fees owed) will not be considered a breach of this Agreement if such delay is caused by a labor dispute, shortage of materials, fire, earthquake, flood, or any other event beyond the control of such party, provided that such party uses reasonable efforts, under the circumstances, to notify the other party of the cause of such delay and to resume performance as soon as possible.
## 13.8 Independent Contractors.
Customer’s relationship to Company is that of an independent contractor, and neither party is an agent or partner of the other. Customer will not have, and will not represent to any third party that it has, any authority to act on behalf of Company.
## 13.9 Notices. 
All notices required or permitted under this agreement must be delivered in writing, if to Company, by emailing support@flowfuse.com and if to Customer by emailing the Customer Point of Contact email address listed on the Cover Page, provided, however, that with respect to any notices relating to breaches of this agreement or termination, a copy of such notice will also be sent in writing to the other party at the address listed on the Cover Page by courier, by certified or registered mail (postage prepaid and return receipt requested), or by a nationally-recognized express mail service. Each party may change its email address and/or address for receipt of notice by giving notice of such change to the other party.
## 13.10  Counterparts. 
This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which will be deemed an original and all of which will be taken together and deemed to be one instrument.
## 13.11 Entire Agreement. 
This Agreement is the final, complete and exclusive agreement of the parties with respect to the subject matters hereof and supersedes and merges all prior discussions between the parties with respect to such subject matters. No modification of or amendment to this Agreement, or any waiver of any rights under this Agreement, will be effective unless in writing and signed by an authorized signatory of Customer and the Company.


## <span name="how-to-contact-us">How to contact us</span>
```
548 Market St
PMB 24889
San Francisco, California 94104-5401 US
```
</div>
