src/handbook/company/security/asset-management.md, before:

---
navTitle: Asset Management Policy
---

# Asset Management Policy

| Policy owner   | Effective date |
| -------------- | -------------- |
| @knolleary     | 2023-06-01     |

## Purpose

This policy establishes how the organization identifies, manages, and protects its assets. Its purpose is to ensure that information and equipment receive appropriate protection and to prevent unauthorized disclosure, modification, removal, or destruction of organizational data.

## Scope 

This policy applies to all FlowFuse owned or managed information systems.

## Policy

### Inventory of Assets

Assets associated with information and information processing facilities that
store, process, or transmit classified information shall be identified and an
inventory of these assets shall be created and maintained.

### Ownership of Assets

Assets maintained in the inventory shall be owned by a specific individual or
group within the company.

### Acceptable Use of Assets

Rules for the acceptable use of information, assets, and information processing
facilities shall be identified and documented in the [Information Security Policy](./information-security.md).

### Loss or Theft of Assets

All personnel must immediately report the loss of any information systems,
including portable or laptop computers, smartphones, PDAs, authentication tokens
(keyfobs, one-time-password generators, or personally owned smartphones or
devices with access to FlowFuse systems) or other devices that can store and
process or help grant access to FlowFuse data.

### Return of Assets

All employees and third-party users of FlowFuse equipment shall return all of
the organizational assets within their possession upon termination of their
employment, contract, or agreement in accordance with the [off-boarding process](../../peopleops/hiring.md#offboarding).

### Handling of Assets

Employees and users who are issued or handle FlowFuse equipment are expected to
use reasonable judgment and exercise due care in protecting and maintaining the
equipment.

Employees are responsible for ensuring that company equipment is secured and
properly attended to whenever it is transported or stored. Equipment must be
secured in accordance with the [Access Control](./access-control.md) policy and
must not be left unattended in public locations.

All mobile devices shall be handled in accordance with the [Information Security Policy](./information-security.md).

## Exceptions

Requests for an exception to this policy must be submitted via email to the
CEO or CTO for approval.

## Violations & Enforcement

Any known violations of this policy should be reported to the CEO or CTO.
Violations of this policy can result in immediate withdrawal or suspension of
system access and/or disciplinary action in accordance with company procedures
up to and including termination of employment.

--- 
Policy derived from [JupiterOne/security-policy-templates](https://github.com/JupiterOne/security-policy-templates) ([CC BY-SA 4 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/)) and [Vanta](https://vanta.com)

Commit message:

Clarify scope of asset management policy
Expanded the scope of the asset management policy to include all organizational assets and clarify applicability to employees and third parties.

src/handbook/company/security/asset-management.md, after:

---
navTitle: Asset Management Policy
---

# Asset Management Policy

| Policy owner   | Effective date |
| -------------- | -------------- |
| @knolleary     | 2023-06-01     |

## Purpose

This policy establishes how the organization identifies, manages, and protects its assets. Its purpose is to ensure that information and equipment receive appropriate protection and to prevent unauthorized disclosure, modification, removal, or destruction of organizational data.

## Scope 

This policy applies to all organizational assets owned or managed by FlowFuse, including information, equipment, and devices. It also applies to all employees and third parties who use or handle these assets.

## Policy

### Inventory of Assets

Assets associated with information and information processing facilities that
store, process, or transmit classified information shall be identified and an
inventory of these assets shall be created and maintained.

### Ownership of Assets

Assets maintained in the inventory shall be owned by a specific individual or
group within the company.

### Acceptable Use of Assets

Rules for the acceptable use of information, assets, and information processing
facilities shall be identified and documented in the [Information Security Policy](./information-security.md).

### Loss or Theft of Assets

All personnel must immediately report the loss of any information systems,
including portable or laptop computers, smartphones, PDAs, authentication tokens
(keyfobs, one-time-password generators, or personally owned smartphones or
devices with access to FlowFuse systems) or other devices that can store and
process or help grant access to FlowFuse data.

### Return of Assets

All employees and third-party users of FlowFuse equipment shall return all of
the organizational assets within their possession upon termination of their
employment, contract, or agreement in accordance with the [off-boarding process](../../peopleops/hiring.md#offboarding).

### Handling of Assets

Employees and users who are issued or handle FlowFuse equipment are expected to
use reasonable judgment and exercise due care in protecting and maintaining the
equipment.

Employees are responsible for ensuring that company equipment is secured and
properly attended to whenever it is transported or stored. Equipment must be
secured in accordance with the [Access Control](./access-control.md) policy and
must not be left unattended in public locations.

All mobile devices shall be handled in accordance with the [Information Security Policy](./information-security.md).

## Exceptions

Requests for an exception to this policy must be submitted via email to the
CEO or CTO for approval.

## Violations & Enforcement

Any known violations of this policy should be reported to the CEO or CTO.
Violations of this policy can result in immediate withdrawal or suspension of
system access and/or disciplinary action in accordance with company procedures
up to and including termination of employment.

--- 
Policy derived from [JupiterOne/security-policy-templates](https://github.com/JupiterOne/security-policy-templates) ([CC BY-SA 4 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/)) and [Vanta](https://vanta.com)
