src/handbook/company/board.md, before:

---
navTitle: Board & Investors
---

# Board meetings

There are Board Meeting Cadence with 4 official 120-minute meetings per year
(once per quarter) about 1 month after the quarter closes, interspersed with 4
60-minute informal meetings that are focused on metrics and cover one strategic
topic for a deep dive.

Scheduling is done by sending out a [Doodle](https://doodle.com/en/) to ensure
it's low friction for all participants.

## Calendar invites

Since some of the folks invited alternate meetings they attend, we have two
sequences of invites scheduled to recur at 26 weeks (instead of one sequence at
13 weeks). This is important to note since this means that if you want to link
something in the meeting invite (e.g. a doc or slides), it must be edited in two
places. This is more reasonable than manually adding folks to the meeting in
alternating succession.

Calendar invites include all the folks expected to be at the board meeting,
including our legal counsel.

## The Meeting

### Prewatch

Three business days before the meeting, the CEO will send a 5-10 minute prewatch
video giving Board Members an overview of the metrics and topics for discussion.
Since meetings are generally scheduled for Tuesdays, this means the prewatch
needs to go out on Fridays.

In most circumstances a 5-10 min prewatch can help make the time together even
more productive, as you get to move contextualizing to before-the-meeting and it
gives people time to let things bake in their head, improving the quality of
conversation.

In the email where we send the pre-watch, we should also include the key metrics
in the text of the email.

### Structure

The 120 minutes of each meeting are structured in the following time blocks:

- 30 minutes Metrics and Company Performance - The company presents key metrics,
  comparing against the plan and updates projections. The figures will be
  distributed well in advance, and as such the discussion should be focussed on
  the reflections of the numbers.
  - 15 minutes (of this 30) on Plan vs Actual Performance
- 60 minutes Strategic Discussion - In the Strategic Discussion portion, we will
  focus on one to three (but no more) key topics of focus for the business for
  discussion. Prior context is shared through the prewatch.
- 30 minutes "Routine business" (Closed portion of meeting) - Providing an open
  forum for board members and observers to raise additional topics. In this
  Closed portion of the meeting, we will always cover:
     - Stock Option Approvals.
     - Approval of previous meeting's minutes.
     - Compensation matters related to team members over 200K USD.

It would be highly appreciated if topics to be discussed are shared in advance with the rest of the board.

It is the CEO's responsibility to manage time in the meeting.

## Metrics

Key Metrics to include:

- Revenue
  - Current ARR
    - [Sales Led cARR](https://app-eu1.hubspot.com/reports-dashboard/26586079/view/111119975)
    - (Self-Serve MRR * 12) aka Self-Serve ARR
  - Current YoY Growth
  - End of Quarter Projections
    - Sales Led cARR (Closed & Goal)
    - (Self-Serve MRR * 12) aka Self-Serve ARR
  - Churned revenue
- Customers
  - Total Subscriptions
    - New Subscriptions
    - Renewed Subscriptions
    - Churned
    - Upsell/Upgrade
    - Downsell/Downgrade
- Company
  - Runway in $
  - Runway in time
  - Cash Burned, planned vs actual
  - Cash on hand, planned vs actual
  - Headcount, planned vs actual
- Deal Board for the Quarter (Pipeline broken down by stages)
  - Discovery
  - Diagnose
  - Solution
  - Closing/Committing
  - Closed Won
  - Also, Key Deals Highlights
- Product Metrics:
  - Managed NR Runtimes, including self-hosted
  - Self-hosted platforms reported via telemetry

### Board Deck

FlowFuse provides a board deck with high level business overview items, the
inspiration for slides is
[taken from this template](https://www.slideshare.net/slideshow/senovo-board-meeting-template/128164697).
The template is updated to fit the FlowFuse business.

Slides are stored in the "Investors" folder in the "FlowFuse Admin" Shared
Drive.

### Post meeting action items

Within a week after the board meeting, the CEO will distribute assets related to
the board meeting.

Assets will always include:

1. A link to the final board deck with metrics in the shared Google Drive
2. A link to the pre-shared materials for the Strategic Discussion
3. List of action items

### Meeting Minutes

Meeting Minutes are compiled by our Counsel and shared after the meeting. They
are stored in the FlowFuse Admin Shared Drive, in the
[Investors directory](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1EO1QO2K0wsHKRhA6FUjwkLvILrPCsAHA),
under the correct year.

## Monthly Investor Updates

FlowFuse investors get a monthly update sent to them through Carta, which
contains the KPIs we track and editorialized information from the CEO on company
performance. For transparency, the company includes financial performance data
from QuickBooks, and reports on 3 key metrics: ARR, Burn, and Runway.

The subject is structured as: `FlowFuse <Month> <Year> Update`, for example:
`FlowFuse May 2025 Update`.

This update should be sent on the 10th of every month, unless there is a delay in the financial review with the controller.

The template to use:

```
Dear FlowFuse Investors,

<Progress made over the past month in 4 sentences max>

KPIs (Per end of May)
* ARR:  $[XX]M, up from $[XX]M end of [Previous Month] and up from $[X]M last year ([Y]x YoY growth)
* Burn 3m AVG: $[XXX]k/mo
* Runway until: [YYYY-MM] (Cash at hand / 3m average burn)

[Topic one]
[Topic two]
[Topic three]

Best,

ZJ
```

## Major Investors

Major investors have access to more data on company performance through Carta.

The company must deliver the following deliverables to all Major Investors:

- Unaudited financial statements within 120 days after each fiscal year.
- Unaudited financials within 45 days after each fiscal quarter.
- Cap table is available through Carta
- Approved annual budget and business plan for the next fiscal year as soon as
  practicable, at most within 30 days of each fiscal year.

One investor in particular wants [this worksheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/10K12_RdNOu81-Ooxh1Vca6dF_EN3VWl2/edit?gid=1113941930#gid=1113941930) to be updated
every quarter. It's set up to be mostly automatically imported from the Ops Plan.

Commit message:

Revise board meeting agenda and session details
Updated the closed session terminology and adjusted compensation threshold.

src/handbook/company/board.md, after:

---
navTitle: Board & Investors
---

# Board meetings

There are Board Meeting Cadence with 4 official 120-minute meetings per year
(once per quarter) about 1 month after the quarter closes, interspersed with 4
60-minute informal meetings that are focused on metrics and cover one strategic
topic for a deep dive.

Scheduling is done by sending out a [Doodle](https://doodle.com/en/) to ensure
it's low friction for all participants.

## Calendar invites

Since some of the folks invited alternate meetings they attend, we have two
sequences of invites scheduled to recur at 26 weeks (instead of one sequence at
13 weeks). This is important to note since this means that if you want to link
something in the meeting invite (e.g. a doc or slides), it must be edited in two
places. This is more reasonable than manually adding folks to the meeting in
alternating succession.

Calendar invites include all the folks expected to be at the board meeting,
including our legal counsel.

## The Meeting

### Prewatch

Three business days before the meeting, the CEO will send a 5-10 minute prewatch
video giving Board Members an overview of the metrics and topics for discussion.
Since meetings are generally scheduled for Tuesdays, this means the prewatch
needs to go out on Fridays.

In most circumstances a 5-10 min prewatch can help make the time together even
more productive, as you get to move contextualizing to before-the-meeting and it
gives people time to let things bake in their head, improving the quality of
conversation.

In the email where we send the pre-watch, we should also include the key metrics
in the text of the email.

### Structure

The 120 minutes of each meeting are structured in the following time blocks:

- 30 minutes Metrics and Company Performance - The company presents key metrics,
  comparing against the plan and updates projections. The figures will be
  distributed well in advance, and as such the discussion should be focussed on
  the reflections of the numbers.
  - 15 minutes (of this 30) on Plan vs Actual Performance
- 60 minutes Strategic Discussion - In the Strategic Discussion portion, we will
  focus on one to three (but no more) key topics of focus for the business for
  discussion. Prior context is shared through the prewatch.
- 30 minutes "Routine business" (Closed session) - Providing an open
  forum for board members and observers to raise additional topics. In this
  Closed portion of the meeting, we will always cover:
     - Stock Option Approvals.
     - Approval of previous meeting's minutes.
     - Compensation matters related to team members over 250K USD.

It would be highly appreciated if topics to be discussed are shared in advance with the rest of the board.

It is the CEO's responsibility to manage time in the meeting.

## Metrics

Key Metrics to include:

- Revenue
  - Current ARR
    - [Sales Led cARR](https://app-eu1.hubspot.com/reports-dashboard/26586079/view/111119975)
    - (Self-Serve MRR * 12) aka Self-Serve ARR
  - Current YoY Growth
  - End of Quarter Projections
    - Sales Led cARR (Closed & Goal)
    - (Self-Serve MRR * 12) aka Self-Serve ARR
  - Churned revenue
- Customers
  - Total Subscriptions
    - New Subscriptions
    - Renewed Subscriptions
    - Churned
    - Upsell/Upgrade
    - Downsell/Downgrade
- Company
  - Runway in $
  - Runway in time
  - Cash Burned, planned vs actual
  - Cash on hand, planned vs actual
  - Headcount, planned vs actual
- Deal Board for the Quarter (Pipeline broken down by stages)
  - Discovery
  - Diagnose
  - Solution
  - Closing/Committing
  - Closed Won
  - Also, Key Deals Highlights
- Product Metrics:
  - Managed NR Runtimes, including self-hosted
  - Self-hosted platforms reported via telemetry

### Board Deck

FlowFuse provides a board deck with high level business overview items, the
inspiration for slides is
[taken from this template](https://www.slideshare.net/slideshow/senovo-board-meeting-template/128164697).
The template is updated to fit the FlowFuse business.

Slides are stored in the "Investors" folder in the "FlowFuse Admin" Shared
Drive.

A second deck will be provided for the "Closed Session" to allow for preperation
of the session just for participants of this session.

### Post meeting action items

Within a week after the board meeting, the CEO will distribute assets related to
the board meeting.

Assets will always include:

1. A link to the final board deck with metrics in the shared Google Drive
2. A link to the pre-shared materials for the Strategic Discussion
3. List of action items

### Meeting Minutes

Meeting Minutes are compiled by our Counsel and shared after the meeting. They
are stored in the FlowFuse Admin Shared Drive, in the
[Investors directory](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1EO1QO2K0wsHKRhA6FUjwkLvILrPCsAHA),
under the correct year.

## Monthly Investor Updates

FlowFuse investors get a monthly update sent to them through Carta, which
contains the KPIs we track and editorialized information from the CEO on company
performance. For transparency, the company includes financial performance data
from QuickBooks, and reports on 3 key metrics: ARR, Burn, and Runway.

The subject is structured as: `FlowFuse <Month> <Year> Update`, for example:
`FlowFuse May 2025 Update`.

This update should be sent on the 10th of every month, unless there is a delay in the financial review with the controller.

The template to use:

```
Dear FlowFuse Investors,

<Progress made over the past month in 4 sentences max>

KPIs (Per end of May)
* ARR:  $[XX]M, up from $[XX]M end of [Previous Month] and up from $[X]M last year ([Y]x YoY growth)
* Burn 3m AVG: $[XXX]k/mo
* Runway until: [YYYY-MM] (Cash at hand / 3m average burn)

[Topic one]
[Topic two]
[Topic three]

Best,

ZJ
```

## Major Investors

Major investors have access to more data on company performance through Carta.

The company must deliver the following deliverables to all Major Investors:

- Unaudited financial statements within 120 days after each fiscal year.
- Unaudited financials within 45 days after each fiscal quarter.
- Cap table is available through Carta
- Approved annual budget and business plan for the next fiscal year as soon as
  practicable, at most within 30 days of each fiscal year.

One investor in particular wants [this worksheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/10K12_RdNOu81-Ooxh1Vca6dF_EN3VWl2/edit?gid=1113941930#gid=1113941930) to be updated
every quarter. It's set up to be mostly automatically imported from the Ops Plan.
