src/handbook/peopleops/job-descriptions/product-manager.md, before:

---
navTitle: Product Manager
navGroup: Job Descriptions
---

# Product Manager

## Job Description

At FlowFuse, the Product Manager (PM) is the strategic engine driving our product's triumph in the market. This individual is a relentless advocate for our users and customers, obsessed with transforming their challenges into market-leading solutions. The PM isn't just defining features; they're architecting the future of our platform, ensuring every innovation propels FlowFuse ahead of the competition and directly contributes to our aggressive growth objectives.

This role demands a highly competitive individual who thrives on understanding complex problems and translating them into tangible, user-loved products. The Product Manager is the key orchestrator aligning product strategy with FlowFuse's core strategic objectives, anticipating future trends, and ensuring our product not only meets but shapes market demands.

The Product Manager is primarily responsible for:
* Understanding and Communicating the Problem: A deep-seated commitment to uncovering and articulating the core problems faced by our users and customers, turning insights into actionable strategies.
* Defining Winning Solutions: Spearheading the definition of requirements for solutions that are not just functional, but truly loved by our users, customers, and the broader community, ensuring market dominance.
* Strategic Product Alignment: Continuously aligning the product strategy with FlowFuse's core strategic objectives, ensuring the product is always positioned to conquer current market demands and aggressively anticipate future trends.

Core Tasks and Responsibilities:
* Maintain and Update Product Strategy: The PM is the strategic custodian, responsible for maintaining and relentlessly updating the product strategy to ensure unwavering alignment with the company's aggressive goals and dynamic market demands.
* Release Planning for Every Milestone: The PM is the DRI (Directly Responsible Individual) for meticulous planning and ruthless prioritization of work for the engineering group, ensuring maximum impact with every release.
* Create Release Changelog Entries: The PM is responsible for ensuring that compelling changelog items are created, thoroughly reviewed, and effectively broadcast to showcase every victory and feature launched.
* Connect User and Customer Insights with Product Prioritization: The PM is a data-driven powerhouse, conducting impactful customer interviews, extracting critical insights about customer adoption and pain points, and then aggressively reprioritizing the "Backlog" and "Roadmap." The goal is to continuously refine the most important features, bugs, and technical debt to secure and expand market relevance.
* Triage New Issues: The PM is the gatekeeper, responsible for rapidly prioritizing incoming issues (features, bugs, security vulnerabilities, etc.) based on their strategic importance and impact.
* Determine Pricing Tier for Features: While the CEO and Sales team lead the pricing strategy, the PM is strategically responsible for determining which features belong to specific tiers, ensuring optimal product positioning and monetization.
* Product-Related Decisions: The PM holds the critical authority for making strategic decisions that sculpt the overall direction and future success of the product.


### What is the Product Manager not responsible for?

- Technical decisions on how the product is built or architected. 
- A team of engineers: The PM will take the lead in decisions about the product, but not manage the people implementing it.
- Shipping in time.
- Effort estimations, the Product Manager provides effort estimation when creating issues. However, the DRI for this process is the CTO.

## Skills

What the Product Manager brings to the table:
* Relentless Problem Solver: A proven ability to deeply understand complex user and customer problems, translating them into clear, actionable product requirements.
* Strategic Visionary: A track record of developing and executing product strategies that align with business objectives and anticipate market shifts.
* Data-Driven Prioritizer: Strong analytical skills with experience using data and customer insights to drive prioritization and make tough decisions that optimize for impact.
* Exceptional Communicator: The ability to clearly articulate product vision, requirements, and value propositions to diverse audiences, from engineers to executives and customers.
* Competitive Drive: A natural ambition to push boundaries, innovate, and ensure FlowFuse's product leads the market.
* Cross-Functional Leader: Proven experience collaborating effectively with engineering, sales, marketing, and customer success teams to deliver outstanding products.

## Hiring Plan

1. Resume Screening: Review resumes and cover letters to assess candidate qualifications, experience, and domain expertise. Done by the hiring manager.
1. [Screening call](https://flowfuse.com/handbook/peopleops/hiring/screening-call/) for 20 minutes. Done by recruiter.
1. CEO Interview (STAR, Technical, and Role Fit) for 45m: Conduct a video interview to evaluate technical knowledge relevant to industrial automation, IIoT, and Product Management, as well as communication skills. Ask candidate about the proposed roadmap for the next year.
1. CTO Interview (Technical) for 45m: A video interview that covers their technical knowledge, background and approach to the role.
1. GTM Interview (Role fit, GTM compatibility) for 30m: Understand how the candidate thinks they can influence GTM and create more growth. Done by the VP of Sales.
1. 90 day play Presentation: Candidate will be discussing the future of FlowFuse's product and deliver ideas for their first 90 days. The company will discuss and judge this based on how the ideas were formed, put forward, and defended against probing.
1. Final Interview (**optional**): A final interview with key stakeholders, potentially including a sales leader or executive, to assess strategic alignment and executive presence.
1. Offer: Extend an offer to the selected candidate.

Commit message:

hiring: Add reference check to the handbook

src/handbook/peopleops/job-descriptions/product-manager.md, after:

---
navTitle: Product Manager
navGroup: Job Descriptions
---

# Product Manager

## Job Description

At FlowFuse, the Product Manager (PM) is the strategic engine driving our product's triumph in the market. This individual is a relentless advocate for our users and customers, obsessed with transforming their challenges into market-leading solutions. The PM isn't just defining features; they're architecting the future of our platform, ensuring every innovation propels FlowFuse ahead of the competition and directly contributes to our aggressive growth objectives.

This role demands a highly competitive individual who thrives on understanding complex problems and translating them into tangible, user-loved products. The Product Manager is the key orchestrator aligning product strategy with FlowFuse's core strategic objectives, anticipating future trends, and ensuring our product not only meets but shapes market demands.

The Product Manager is primarily responsible for:
* Understanding and Communicating the Problem: A deep-seated commitment to uncovering and articulating the core problems faced by our users and customers, turning insights into actionable strategies.
* Defining Winning Solutions: Spearheading the definition of requirements for solutions that are not just functional, but truly loved by our users, customers, and the broader community, ensuring market dominance.
* Strategic Product Alignment: Continuously aligning the product strategy with FlowFuse's core strategic objectives, ensuring the product is always positioned to conquer current market demands and aggressively anticipate future trends.

Core Tasks and Responsibilities:
* Maintain and Update Product Strategy: The PM is the strategic custodian, responsible for maintaining and relentlessly updating the product strategy to ensure unwavering alignment with the company's aggressive goals and dynamic market demands.
* Release Planning for Every Milestone: The PM is the DRI (Directly Responsible Individual) for meticulous planning and ruthless prioritization of work for the engineering group, ensuring maximum impact with every release.
* Create Release Changelog Entries: The PM is responsible for ensuring that compelling changelog items are created, thoroughly reviewed, and effectively broadcast to showcase every victory and feature launched.
* Connect User and Customer Insights with Product Prioritization: The PM is a data-driven powerhouse, conducting impactful customer interviews, extracting critical insights about customer adoption and pain points, and then aggressively reprioritizing the "Backlog" and "Roadmap." The goal is to continuously refine the most important features, bugs, and technical debt to secure and expand market relevance.
* Triage New Issues: The PM is the gatekeeper, responsible for rapidly prioritizing incoming issues (features, bugs, security vulnerabilities, etc.) based on their strategic importance and impact.
* Determine Pricing Tier for Features: While the CEO and Sales team lead the pricing strategy, the PM is strategically responsible for determining which features belong to specific tiers, ensuring optimal product positioning and monetization.
* Product-Related Decisions: The PM holds the critical authority for making strategic decisions that sculpt the overall direction and future success of the product.


### What is the Product Manager not responsible for?

- Technical decisions on how the product is built or architected. 
- A team of engineers: The PM will take the lead in decisions about the product, but not manage the people implementing it.
- Shipping in time.
- Effort estimations, the Product Manager provides effort estimation when creating issues. However, the DRI for this process is the CTO.

## Skills

What the Product Manager brings to the table:
* Relentless Problem Solver: A proven ability to deeply understand complex user and customer problems, translating them into clear, actionable product requirements.
* Strategic Visionary: A track record of developing and executing product strategies that align with business objectives and anticipate market shifts.
* Data-Driven Prioritizer: Strong analytical skills with experience using data and customer insights to drive prioritization and make tough decisions that optimize for impact.
* Exceptional Communicator: The ability to clearly articulate product vision, requirements, and value propositions to diverse audiences, from engineers to executives and customers.
* Competitive Drive: A natural ambition to push boundaries, innovate, and ensure FlowFuse's product leads the market.
* Cross-Functional Leader: Proven experience collaborating effectively with engineering, sales, marketing, and customer success teams to deliver outstanding products.

## Hiring Plan

1. Resume Screening: Review resumes and cover letters to assess candidate qualifications, experience, and domain expertise. Done by the hiring manager.
1. [Screening call](https://flowfuse.com/handbook/peopleops/hiring/screening-call/) for 20 minutes. Done by recruiter.
1. CEO Interview (STAR, Technical, and Role Fit) for 45m: Conduct a video interview to evaluate technical knowledge relevant to industrial automation, IIoT, and Product Management, as well as communication skills. Ask candidate about the proposed roadmap for the next year.
1. CTO Interview (Technical) for 45m: A video interview that covers their technical knowledge, background and approach to the role.
1. GTM Interview (Role fit, GTM compatibility) for 30m: Understand how the candidate thinks they can influence GTM and create more growth. Done by the VP of Sales.
1. 90 day play Presentation: Candidate will be discussing the future of FlowFuse's product and deliver ideas for their first 90 days. The company will discuss and judge this based on how the ideas were formed, put forward, and defended against probing.
1. Final Interview (**optional**): A final interview with key stakeholders, potentially including a sales leader or executive, to assess strategic alignment and executive presence.
1. [Reference Checks](/handbook/peopleops/hiring/reference-check/): Request 3 professional references from the candidate and conduct 1-2 reference check calls to validate performance and cultural fit. Conducted by the hiring manager.
1. Offer: Extend an offer to the selected candidate.
